---
title: The Graph
---

Each Membrane program is modeled as its own _graph_, with data and functionality represented by nodes in the graph.

<!-- TODO: visualization -->

A program's graph is defined by its schema, autogenerated in `your-program/memconfig.json` based on the schema you configure in the Explorer panel. The schema is a set of types, which can be _fields_, _actions_, and _events_.

- **Fields**: queryable nodes and values
- **Actions**: invocable functions on a node
- **Events**: subscribable notifications

## Root Type

Schemas must include a `Root` type which defines the type of the program's _root
node_. This node serves as the entry point into the program—all references are relative to the root node.

Nodes are referred to by the program's name followed by a colon and then a path to the node from the `Root` type. For example:

- `github:` refers to the root node of the [github driver](https://github.com/membrane-io/membrane-driver-github)
- `twitter:` refers to the root node of the [twitter driver](https://github.com/membrane-io/membrane-driver-twitter)
- `github:users.one(name:"membrane-io")` refers to a Github `User`
- `github:users.one(name:"membrane-io").repos.one(name:"directory")` refers to a `Repository`

## Fields

Fields are queryable nodes that hold values you can read. From the [github driver](https://github.com/membrane-io/membrane-driver-github):

- `github:status` is a field of type `String` via the `status` field on the `Root` type
- `github:users` is a field of type `UserCollection` via the `users` field on the `Root` type
- `github:users.one(name:"membrane-io")` refers to a node of type `User`
- `github:users.one(name:"juancampa")` refers to _another_ node of type `User`

The two last examples show that parameters can be passed to fields where each combination of parameters
represent a different node in the graph.

We call these references _handles_ or _grefs_ (short for graph reference).

## Actions

Actions are functions that can be invoked in the context of a graph node. Note that since actions are graph nodes too, they can be passed around and referenced just like fields.

## Events

Events are types that can be emitted from a program and subscribed to from a program.

Programs can subscribe an action to handle an event. When an event is emitted, the action will be invoked with an additional parameter called `event`.
